First time a student told me that
he's going to die.
Let's see, any tragedy, sad, truly sad realities
you remember?
I guess everything pales compared to last fall's
loss. Yes. But I've had students that would be
enrolled in the class, commit suicide, be killed
in car wrecks.
And I've had them tell me they had HIV positive.
We've had graduate students.
I
don't know the person's name. But we, through what
we've worked with international students, I
don't
think the department itself put any money into
getting the body back home.
I just, I don't know the particular. You know, one
of the, one of the, one of the latest things, we had
a, we had a student from Mexico lose a 12-year-old
daughter here
Christmas a year ago, over the Christmas holidays
she died. Turns out she'd undergone a lot of tests
here. Apparently the, the parents didn't know
enough to, to check and get, get the results of the
test. Because I remember she had a brain tumor or
something. She, she'd undergone a lot of tests.
They had to. They had results. Suggesting there
was a real problem with her going on vacation to
Mexico with the girl without getting the test. The
ex-fan said, because I'm not sure the student's
major, but I certainly didn't know. Some
of the,
so some of those things happened. And you know, we
had a student drown. That
brought a unique knaph. This guy probably knew
more about knaph than anybody in the world. And
brought him in here as a graduate student. And he,
he drowned overnight. Some of it. You know. What
about some, some of the highlights, the
positives? You
see
how successful
they've
been
just the other day. A fellow walked in. Very
funny. I
mean,
you have,
you have those kinds of guys. It
was
just a great experience. If they ever get a chance
to come back to the States. That fellow from Korea
had attended meetings in Orlando, Florida.
He had other friends in the community, but. All
right. Now you thought things were beginning to
move forward. You and your colleagues under Mr.
Rutter and then
under
Williams.
I
just, I mean, knowing Jarvis as I do, I just cannot.
To this day. That was painful. Yeah. Yeah.
Absolutely painful. Right. That was just not
good. But he, he was not cut out for being
interested. All right. Then had an acting
president for a year. Dr. Vandenberg. Did you and
your colleagues know? No. No, I
don't
think
you saw him in those years under his leadership. I
think quite well. This is about. He was here 19
years. He actually was, he had longer than, longer
than Dr. Vandenberg. So, he gets here what year? He
got here in 1980, served through 1999. Describe
his men. He was not here. You know, he was not here in
a period of growth. He was here more in a period of
retrenchment for the department. the
department.
So that made, I think that made the management much
more difficult in a sense. He never, he never had to
quote clout for the upper administration. On the
other hand,
he gets lectures and several, so we usually get him
in about 30 or 40 different, so we actually have him
in the classroom as many hours and we'd have him if
he taught a class, but we put him in contact with
many, many more students. Do the students seem to
appreciate what he is? I mean, if you've never
heard the man speak, it'd be worth hearing. So they
are appropriately respectful and impressed?
Oh yeah, he is an amazing man. They dedicated the
Borlaug Center over here last year. Were you there
under that dedication? Well, it gives you some
indication of the man. He was, he was limited to 15
minutes. I wouldn't have thought there'd be any
way in the world you could get him up and down in 15
minutes. Maybe it was 10 and he actually, we got him
up and down in 15. I mean, I believe he was only
supposed to take 10 minutes. Well, he let me, let me
critique his remarks, but two or three officers
sitting out there, Dr. Borlaug spoke and I leaned
over the guy next to him and I said, he's all
stripped now. But, but he, he was talking about
that all of the adverse publicity about the
genetically modified organisms and how too
little had been done to educate the public as to
what these were coming on, and, and sitting behind
him on the stage was Dr. Bowen, Dr. Douglas. We're
two members of the Board of Regents.
I don't remember who else was up there. Maybe it did
on the controller. Bill, uh, anyway, I know, I know
you got it's alright, you got it. You're Douglas
and Roy, and at least two members of the board, and
Warlock turned around while he was talking and
just shook his finger in the face every
while about what we needed to be doing. I mean, the
guy's brassy. He's absolute. And he can do it and
get by with it. You know, he can do it because he's
very gracious. He's just an extremely gracious,
unassuming guy who put him down there in a
windowless, 120-square-foot office. He never
said a word. Now, he's been a part of the department
for about a decade now or longer? Yeah, longer than
that. How did he come to be? I don't know. You'd like
to ask somebody else about that? You don't know who
linked him up? Well, I know Perry Atkinson had a big
time role in it. Perry, of course, Perry became a
National Academy person. Yes, yes. And Norm was
National Academy. Okay, so... I'm sure... I'm
sure that Perry got acquainted with Norm in that
setting. So, I expect it was a Perry Atkinson. All
right. Now, Dr. Atkinson didn't come out of this
department, did he? No, he's out of entomology.
Entomology. All right, and he moved up into the
administration. Yeah. Did you and your
colleagues feel positive about that? Did you
feel... Generally so. That it was good to have...
Nobody
ever accused Dr. Atkinson of being a good, classy
teacher. I didn't. His standard statement I've
heard. I never heard Dr. Atkinson say that, but
I've heard him say it. It's all three of credit, of
course.
People like such a big deal about teaching
three-hour courses. Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. I've got to
tell you... Now, before we forget this, I've got to
tell you about the low life in my whole... Oh, good.
Good. ...my whole three years. Okay. I tilled my
garden that year because it was unbelievable.
When we were hiring... these people in the 75-80
period.
We were getting money on the university side. We
were not getting any money on the experimental
side. So we hired, about the same time, two young
faculty members, 100% teaching. No
experimentation
partner or author on some of their papers. He
wouldn't have any part of any of that. He thought,
well, here's where the student finished and
published
at college level. I
measured him by research publication. Absolute
retreat. In
a
way, I could see that part of it was his own doings,
his own stubbornness and hard-headedness. At the
same time, I felt like if the man had the kind of
support that he had within his department for his
contributions, the people who knew his work best,
who the heck was somebody up there to say this is the
weakest person they ever saw? Now that was, that
really, that really got to me. And I just, man, I
worked my old garden. I never had anything that
bothered me so much in my whole career.
Philosophically, how does a first-rate
land-grant school appropriately been met?
I have an average of more like one every two years,
kind of thing. But I can't see that that's held me
back in any way at any level in the institution. So,
you know, I take a dim view when people say that
teaching doesn't get the credit it deserves, or
advising doesn't get the credit it deserves. I
think, I think generally it does. My posture is if
you take those three areas, there are very, there
are comparatively few people that excel in any one
of the three.